Notations used and other comments:
Colors: I use the standard Rubik's cube colors of white, blue, green, red, yellow, and orange.

Each of the six sides of the cube are labeled with one of the following names: front, back, up, down, left, right.

Face->color mappings
front:red
back: orange
up: white
down: blue
left: green
right: yellow

Axes:
My representation uses a right-handed coordinate system with the X axis in the direction of the right (yellow) face, the Y axis in the direction of the up (white) face, and the Z axis in the direction of the back (orange) face.

Each face is stored as a 3x3 matrix of the first letter of each color on each square of that face.

To find the orientation of a face used in my representation follow these steps:
1.) Look directly at the front face (red), and position the up (white), face on top so that the Y axis is pointing up and the Z axis is pointing right. This is the orientation used for the front side.
2.) To find the left, right, or back orientations, start at the correct orientation for the front face. Rotate the cube about the Y axis so that the desired face is in view. This is the orientation used for each of those sides.
3.) To find the up face orientaton, start at the correct orientation for the front face. Now rotate the cube about the X axis so that the top face is now in front.
4.) To find the bottom face orientation, start at the correct orientation for the front face. Now rotate the cube about the X axis so that the bottom face is now in front.

Actions:
There are 12 moves and 6 rotations possible on a cube. They are listed below.

moves:
F: rotate the slice containing the front face clockwise 90 degrees.
F': rotate the slice containing the front face counter-clockwise 90 degrees.
B: rotate the slice containing the back face clockwise 90 degrees.
B': rotate the slice containing the back face counter-clockwise 90 degrees.
U: rotate the slice containing the up face clockwise 90 degrees.
U': rotate the slice containing the up face counter-clockwise 90 degrees.
D: rotate the slice containing the down face clockwise 90 degrees.
D': rotate the slice containing the down face counter-clockwise 90 degrees.
L: rotate the slice containing the left face clockwise 90 degrees.
L': rotate the slice containing the left face counter-clockwise 90 degrees.
R: rotate the slice containing the right face clockwise 90 degrees.
R': rotate the slice containing the right face counter-clockwise 90 degrees.

rotations:
x: Rotate the entire cube 90 degrees clockwise when looking at the X axis (right/yellow face).
x': Rotate the entire cube 90 degrees counter-clockwise when looking at the X axis (right/yellow face).
y: Rotate the entire cube 90 degrees clockwise when looking at the Y axis (top/white face).
y': Rotate the entire cube 90 degrees counter-clockwise when looking at the Y axis (top/white face).
z: Rotate the entire cube 90 degrees clockwise when looking at the Z axis (back/orange face).
z': Rotate the entire cube 90 degrees counter-clockwise when looking at the Z axis (back/orange face).

Screen display:
The cube is displayed on the screen in an unfolded state. The first row shows the top face. The second row shows the left, front, right, and back faces. Finally, the third row shows the bottom face. By default it is output using pretty colors, however chances are in different environments it will not appear correctly. If you wish to disable pretty printing, visit the prettyprint() method at the bottom of cube.py. Further instructions within that function will guide you on how to disable color output. Enter commands to manipulate the cube.

Program execution:
use 'python main.py' to execute this program.

Loading files:
It is possible to load a cube state from a file. The load commmand will ask for a filename that contains a cube state. Currently only minimal error checking is performed. Several .cube files containing valid and interesting states are provided for your entertainment.
